
Since proto-, deutero- and mesomyoglobins have a high spin state under the same condition, the increase of the low spin iron in these formylmyoglobins may be due to the strong electron withdrawal by the formyl groups toward the periphery of the porphyrin ring.
The concentration of immunoreactive secretin in portal blood and the secretion from the exocrine pancreas were measured during intraduodenal infusion of isotonic or hypertonic saline, isotonic or hypertonic glucose, aminoacids, fat emulsion, or 0.1 mol X 1(-1) hydrochloric acid in 7 anaesthetized pigs.
To further characterize mechanisms of glucose counterregulation in man, the effects of pharmacologically inducd deficiencies of glucagon, growth hormone, and catecholamines (alone and in combination) on recovery of plasma glucose from insulin-induced hypoglycemia and attendant changes in isotopically ([3-(3)H]glucose) determined glucose fluxes were studied in 13 normal subjects.
This proteinase splits somatostatin, Substance P and some C-fragments of Substance P. The probable sites of enzyme action on these peptides were determined by the end group dansyl technique.
Opposite to this, gelatin, dextran, hydroxyethyl starch, and albumin solutions are available as the mainstay of an adequate volume expansion.
In Bacillus megaterium QM B1551, spore germination could be initiated by glucose in the absence of detectable oxygen consumption, ATP synthesis or a pH decrease in the external media, suggesting that none of those reactions were mandatory.
A systematic search has been made for inhibitors of L-asparagine synthetase (L-glutamine hydrolyzing, EC 6.3.5.4) from leukemia 5178Y/AR, a rodent neoplasm resistant to the oncolytic enzyme L-asparaginase (EC 3.5.1.1), The classes of chemicals examined in this search included substrate and product analogs, agents capable of reacting with sulfhydryl functions, and a variety of modifiers whose mechanism of interaction with proteins is known.
Moreover, these studies demonstrate that, as is true of T-B cell interactions, the most efficient T-T cell interactions occur to determinants linked together on the same molecule thus supporting the concept that development of effector T-cell function may involve participation of at least two distinct precursor cells, each of which may convey independent determinant specificities and/or genetic control.
Cryptorchid rats showed destruction of the germinal epithelium accompanied by increased plasma FSH and, to a much lesser extent, increased plasma LH titers.
The combination of aspirin with phenacetin did not change, that of aspirin with caffeine significantly increased, and aspirin with paracetamol significantly decreased the incidence of gastric lesions compared with aspirin alone.
The present study was designed to investigate whether this retrograde transport of NGF depends on properties of the nerve terminals which are common to all the neurons or restricted to those which respond to NGF either during the whole life cycle (adrenergic neurons) or during a restricted period of embryonic development (sensory neurons).
When a cooled Heidenhain pouch in an animal receiving pentagastrin was warmed, acid and pepsin secretion from the main stomach was depressed.
The pH optimum and the Km values for UDP-N-acetylglucosamine and NAD were determined.
Exogenous secretin did not significantly improve percent acid neutralized in PI.
Since plasma kallikrein can activate plasminogen, the present studies were designed to evaluate whether alkaline-phase activation of prorenin by plasma kallikrein is mediated via plasminogen activation.
The derivative lacking the C-terminal hexapeptide still possesses inhibitory activities against trypsin and alpha-chymotrypsin (EC 3.4.21.1), however, its antichymotryptic activity was inactivated by incubation with chymotrypsin at pH 8.0.
produced a slight reduction of the tetragastrin-induced secretion and a significant reduction of methacholine-induced secretion.
The data supports a hypothesis for possible induced, conformationally altered gamma globulin resulting from low molecular weight chemical exposures such as aspirin with ensuing recognition by a genetically determined subpopulation of B-lymphocytes with surface membrane receptors avid for the Fc portion of altered gamma globulin or some conformationally altered gamma globulin fraction leading to immune and/or interprotein complexes with subsequent alterations of adrenergic, cholinergic and/or metabolic pharmacologic pathways.
Pharmacological agents such as diazoxide, which inhibit glucose-induced insulin release, may have a place in preserving and restoring insulin secretion in diabetes.
The reaction mechanism was determined as being rapid equilibrium random BiBi + dead end complex or ordered BiBi with UDPglucose being the first substrate to bind.
Plasma concentrations of desmethyldiazepam (DMDZ) were determined in multiple samples drawn during 48 hr after each dose.
Gastric acid seretion was stimulated by a standard steak meal, human synthetic gastrin, and betazole hydrochloride.
The hydrogenase activity of the intact cells of a thermophilic hydrogen-oxidizing bacterium Pseudomonas thermophila K-2 was determined using methylene blue; it was several times higher than the rate of hydrogen uptake in the presence of oxygene and carbon dioxide.
Under conditions of a marginal deficiency of dietary biotin, the level of biotin in the liver has differing effects on the activities of two biotin-dependent enzymes, pyruvate carboxylase and acetyl-CoA carboxylase.
Using this method it was found that (i) abrupt bronchiolar collapse occurred in the preterminal and terminal bronchioles once the luminal diameter was reduced to a critical level: (ii) decreased temperatures resulted in airway narrowing which was reversed by increasing the temperature to above 25 degrees C; as a rule, airway narrowing followed a cranial to caudal direction, and higher concentration of a drug being required to close the peripheral airways; (iii) bronchodilators except Carbuterol had no effect on resting bronchial tone or on acetylcholine-induced constriction in the absence of alpha-adrenoceptor blockade; (iv) at 35 degrees C rhythmic waves (frequency 6--20/min) were observed; these waves travelled from the periphery in a cranial direction.
The demonstration of whether such a relationship exists must await the development of techniques that will allow the measurement of cyclic nucleotide levels in the presynaptic adrenergic nerve terminal after exposure to the putative modulators of release and consequent to nerve stimulation.
The rate of the linear gastric emptying pattern was slowed by pentagastrin in every individual.
pH and PCO2 of plasma and red cells were analyzed electrometrically and a micromanometric method was used for the determination of total carbon dioxide content.
DEAE-cellulose chromatography of CK2 and CK1 isoenzymes in the presence of serum protein, and serum albumin had no significant effect on the elution of CK2 at pH 7.0 and 7.4, and on the elution of CK1 at pH 7.0 and 8.0 However, serum and serum albumin decreased the affinity of CK2 for DEAE-celluose at pH 8.0, and caused this isoenzyme to elute at a conductivity of 3.0-3.5 m omega-1.
Titration of the basic NH2-terminal region produced an open form, which can return to the native form at neutral pH, but which is maintained at low pH by neutralization of carboxylate groups in the pepsin portion.
Protein QUPC 52 has an immunodominant group which is expressed by IM3 but not smaller oligosaccharides and this protein can react at nonterminal locations along alpha (1 yields 6)-linked dextran chains.
Because the properties of Gln synthetase from the insertion mutant, most importantly the carboxyl-terminal sequence of amino acids, are the same as those of synthetase from wild type, the Tn10 insertion cannot be in glnA (if it were, the carboxyl terminus of Gln synthetase would have to be altered); therefore we conclude that the Tn10 insertion is in a regulatory gene, glnR, which is distinct from glnA.
Rabbit reticulocyte incorporation of iron from rabbit transferrin was independent of transferrin iron saturation but uptake from human transferrin was saturation dependent.
In the other experiments, pentagastrin had no effect on HCl secretion although subsequent administration of histamine did stimulate HCl secretion.
High rates of spontaneous secretion or secretion in response to histamine and pentagastrin were significantly inhibited by addition of metiamide (5 X 10(-3) M); but mucosa stimulated by constant addition of acetylcholine chloride (10(-4) M) was not inhibited by metiamide at the same concentration.
The results suggest that the glucose effect on the induction of 5-aminolevulinate synthetase and tyrosine aminotransferase in vivo is mediated by extrahepatic factors.
The cerebral metabolic rates of oxygen and CO2 were determined by the van Slyke method and by gaschromatography respectively and of glucose and lactate by standard enzymatic methods.
Early during the course of polymerization, the size of the product, as determined by alkaline sucrose gradient centrifugation, is, in part, a function of the ratio of the template-primer complex to the enzyme.
The typing of haptoglobin samples, was facilitated by devising a method which utilizes the peroxidase activity of the haptoglobin-hemoglobin complex with 90-tolidine and hydrogen peroxide as substrates and 4-chloro-1-naphthol as coupler.
Repeated administration of 100 mg/kg cinchophen for 3 to 7 days brought about an increase in epinephrine and gastrin levels and caused an occurrence of fundic mucosal hemorrhage.
Glucagon had no effect on pancreatic protein secretion, and circulating levels of endogenously released secretin remained unchanged.
A new group of drugs, the histamine2 (H2)-receptor antagonists, act on receptors in the stomach to reduce acid secretion when this is stimulated by histamine, pentagastrin, the vagus nerve or food.
The possible therapeutic significance of somatostatin administration to diabetics would lie in the saving of insulin.
Aspirin 3-50 mg/kg reaching the pentagastrin-stimulated pouch through the blood, increased acid secretion and MBF, but the MBF:secretion ratio was variably affected.
A modified analytical isoelectric focusing procedure on polyacrylamide gel slabs, offering increased resolving capacity, has been developed for identification of six subtypes of the most common alpha-1-antitrypsin (A-1-AT) phenotype, Pi M. Combination of commercial Ampholine and other ampoteric substances, so called separators, produces pH plateaus, determined by the properties of the the additatives.
The systemic administration of fluphenazine and clozapine was followed by an increase in the activity of striatal and hypothalamic tyrosine hydroxylase.
For this purpose, 7 insulin-requiring juvenile-onset diabetics were submitted to a short-term infusion of cyclic somatostatin (250 micrograms/h, over 2 h) or saline in randomized order.
The weakly basic alkaloids trapped on the latter column are eluted with a methanol mixture; a portion of the eluate is treated with nitrous acid and the reserpine-rescinnamine content is determined by measuring the intensity of fluorescence of the oxidation product.
In addition, the activity of endogenous secretin released by acid was markedly reduced by application of antibody.
At low conidial density (5 X 10(3) conidia/ml), exogenous carbon-independent macroconidial germination and subsequent rapid chalmydospore formation on germ tubes was not inhibited by ammonium or nitrate nitrogen.
Therefore, it may be expected that lergotrile could fulfill these clinical uses; however, in the studies comparing the effects of single oral doses of lergotrile (2 mg) and bromocriptine (2.5 mg) on GH and PRL secretion in patients with acromegaly and hyperprolactinemia, lergotrile in the dose used has been found to have an earlier onset and shorter duration of action.
Rapid infusion of large volumes of fluids and electrolytes, together with continuous infusion of low doses of insulin, provides effective restoration of fluid and electrolyte balance and correction of metabolic derangements.
Total and mucosal blood flow in the nonsecreting stomach and the interrelation between local blood flow changes and gastric hydrochloric acid secretion as influenced by various drugs or hormones were investigated in 188 anaesthetized dogs.
Diazepam and nordiazepam were also each separately determined in 101 serum specimens from cases of diazepam overdose, including 27 cases from the aforementioned clinical correlation study.
These changes in pH and in secretin levels were diminished after cimetidine.
Within 24 and 72 hrs the effects of vitamin and antivitamin acquired the opposite (specific) direction towards the activity of glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase in liver tissues.
6-Hydroxydopamine injection into the s. nigra, which depleted tyrosine hydroxylase activity within the s. nigra by 85%, while leaving phosphodiesterase unaffected, resulted in a 40% decrease in [3H]spiperone binding but no change in the dopamine-sensitive adenylate cyclase.
Therefore, the increased iodide release induced by acute TSH stimulation is a mere consequence of the enhanced thyroglobulin proteolysis and does not require higher enzyme concentration.
The significance of experimentally determined sublethal effects in relation to the setting of environmental standards is considered.
Within a day after hypophisectomy D-cycloserine did not cause the induction of tyrosine aminotransferase in rat liver tissue; to the contrary, the dimer of D-cycloserine caused induction of the enzyme, comparable to the ACTH effect, in liver tissue of hypophisectomized rats.
A systematic study of analytical methods for the determination of hexavalent chromium showed that currently existing techniques are unsatisfactory when used with welding fumes, the s-diphenylcarbazide method proposed by the U.S. National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health permitting less than 1% recovery of hexavalent chromium from synthetic welding fumes of known composition.
The catecholic amino acids, dopa, 2-S- and 5-S-cysteinyldopa, and 2,5-S,S-dicysteinyldopa were determined qualitatively in serum from patients with malignant melanoma by reversed-phase high-performance liquid chromatography, using electrochemical detection.
To investigate the effect of chronic alpha-adrenergic receptor blockade on renin release, plasma renin activity (PRA) was determined overnight at short intervals in 9 patients with essential hypertension before and after 7 days medication with phenoxybenzamine (20 mg orally/day).
Envelope preparations of Neisseria gonorrhoeae strain GC1 (a stable, piliated strain of intermediate colony morphology) and type T1 possess a D-alanine carboxypeptidase which releases the terminal alanine residue from the uridine 5'-diphosphate-N-acetyl muramylpentapeptide substrate (isolated from Bacillus cereus T).
A gas-chromatographic method has been developed for the simultaneous determination of naltrexone, alpha-naltrexol, and beta-naltrexol as trimethylsiyl derivatives.
On determining LDH isoenzyme activity in homogenates from kidneys, no statistically significant differences were noted either in the groups treated with standard diet or those on protein rich diet, as compared with the controls not given lindane.
Dopamine and its metabolites homovanillic acid and dihydroxyphenylacetic acid, noradrenaline, serotonin and its metabolite 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid, and tryptophan and its metabolite kynurenine have been assayed in 9 schizophrenic and 10 control brains, together with the monoamine-related enzymes tyrosine hydroxylase monoamine oxidase, dopamine-beta-hydroxylase, and catechol-o-methyl-transferase.
It is concluded: (1) that the environment at birth is important in determining the fermentative ability of the stomach flora; (2) that if lactic acid is produced in large amounts in the stomach, it may partly or completely inhibit acidification by HC1.
The nuclear magnetic resonance spectral characteristics of these groups are, in general, consistent with the overall structure of the crystal form of the 2-zinc insulin hexamer.
Following 2 hours after bromazepam treatment, no change was noted in tyrosine levels and tyrosine hydroxylase activity in striatum or rate of catecholamine synthesis in synaptosomal preparation (P2 pellet).
1 A double-blind cross-over trial between placebo, chlorpheniramine, and terfenadine, a new antihistamine drug, was performed in healthy male volunteers to determine and compare their CNS and autonomic effects.
The following experiments were performed to determine whether the testicular soluble adenylate and guanylate cyclase activities were carried on the same molecule.
For a given tripeptide, the resonances of the COOH-terminal and NH2-terminal amino acids can be identified by measurements at low or high pH.
Various kinetic parameters were determined for each reactant at 33 degrees C, at pH 9.6 for NAD reduction, at pH 6.6 for NADH oxidation.
The arylsulfatase B is then eluted from the resin with 0.3 M sodium chloride.
Determination of the ratio of norepinephrine to dopamine confirmed that no other dopamine pools exist in the guinea pig SCG.
Other tested substances including luteinizing hormone releasing hormone, thyrotropin releasing hormone, somatostatin, melanocyte stimulating hormone release inhibiting factor, beta-endorphin, neurotensin, substance P, vasoactive intestinal polypeptide, angiotensin II, norepinephrine, serotonin, acetylcholine, histamine and gamma-amino butyric acid showed neither agonistic nor antagonistic effect on the release of ACTH induced by HY-CRF.
Quantitative analysis of the metabolites determined after administration of [14C]bromazepam to rat revealed that the three metabolites together comprised about 6% of the total radioactivity excreted in the 24-h urine, or about 1% of the dose.
The results indicate that sialic acid masks antigenic determinants in human thyroglobulin and that carbohydrates might be the determinants involved in the process of autoimmunization.
A bolus of somatostatin almost completely prevented the rise in GH levels in response to arginine.
Based upon these studies, changes of less than 45 millimeters in the arterial oxygen tension determined with a patient breathing 100% oxygen are not reliable indicators of direction of change in shunt fraction.
When doses of glucagon, epinephrine, and phenylephrine which produced the same stimulation of glycogenolysis or gluconeogenesis were added to the same batches of cells, there were marked rises in cAMP with glucagon, minimal increases with epinephrine, and little or no changes with phenylephrine, indicating that the two catecholamine stimulated these processes largely by mechanisms not involving cAMP accumulation.
Clearance, salivary secretion, blood pressure, and heart rate were determined in eight subjects after double-blind, subcutaneous administration of 0.25 mg terbutaline sulfate, a beta-adrenoceptor stimulating compound and vehicle, respectively, in a crossover study.
Peak pepsin output (P.P.O[I]) was stimulated by insulin-induced hypoglycaemia and the enzyme was assayed by Piper's method.
To determine its effect on LES pressure, 8 normal volunteers received placebo or oral doses of cimetidine (50, 100, 200, and 400 mg) in a random, blinded manner.
Antibodies were induced in rabbits by injection of a bovine albumin-ethenoadenosine conjugate.
Since both antigens are polydispered, the low percentage of sialic acids or of some amino acids determined might have antigenic significance.
It is concluded that the response of a cell to methotrexate is significantly influenced by the dissociation constant of its dihydrofolate reductase-methotrexate complex.
The processing in vitro of the 15,000 higher-M(r) form of somatostatin was achieved by proteolytic enzymes coeluted with this species during the fractionation of hypothalamic extracts.
The lipolytic activity in the presence of serum is characterized mainly as lipoprotein lipase activity by a pH-optimum of 8.0, by the fact that serum is necessary for full activity, and that it is inhibited by 1 M NaCl and by protamine.
Such increases in tyrosine hydroxylase activity are not observed in animals given ammonium chloride, another basic chloride-containing compound, by stomach tube or in animals treated with cycloheximide, an inhibitor of adrenal protein synthesis.
Hyperglycemic reactions can be expected following administration of diuretics (especially with long acting thiazides), diazoxide, beta-adrenergic stimulants (tocolytics), glucocorticoids, and prolactin.
Hormones such as glucocorticoids, catecholamines and glucagon can stimulate enzyme induction during development; on the other hand, insulin has been shown to antagonize these stimulatory effects.
24 cures of l-asparaginase therapy were carried out.
Superimposed intravenous infusion of secretin and cholecystokinin increased acid disposal, particularly in patients with duodenal ulcer, and increased the associated rate of secretion of water and electrolytes or changed net absorption to net secretion.
An in vitro method for the determination of availability of nonheme iron from foods and diets was investigated.
The hippocampal formation also contains nerve elements reacting with antibodies against neuroactive peptides, such as enkephalin, substance P, somatostatin and gastrin/cholecystokinin.
Candidates for this are H2 receptor blockers, prostaglandines and possibly substances resembling secretin.
Plasma levels of pindolol were also determined.
Microsamples of blood were taken from both mother and fetus during labor and the following determinations were carried out: actual pH, pHqu 40, Hb concentration, hemoglobin oxygen saturation, base deficit Hb5 (BDHb5).